- [Instructor] We just set up a cluster of Payara Servers
but there are a few issues in setting up a cluster
across two or more physical machines.
In this video we'll be using the SSH capabilities built in
to Payara which is problematic for Windows users.
However, Payara also has a different communication facility
for Windows machines using DCOM.
We will only be focusing on SSH for this in the next video.
If you're interested in using DCOM,
please use the link found here.
For Mac users we want to have Homebrew installed.
Brew's a package manager that makes it easier
in going foward with our install, Vagrant.
Please run the following commands,
brew cask install
virtualbox.
Then type, brew cask
install vagrant.
And finally, type, brew cask
install vagrant-manager.
Vagrant is, as their website points out,
a tool for building and managing virtual machine
environments in a single workflow.
Now, we'll be using Vagrant in this setup
to run a VirtualBox VM of Linux
for one of our Payara cluster instances to run on.
With Vagrant installed from the terminal
type, vagrant init
generic/oracle7, hit Enter.
There are many different VMs we could use like
Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu, or even Windows.
If you look at the directory you ran,
the vagrant init command you'll see a Vagrant file.
There can only be one Vagrant file in a directory,
and this is where the VM will live.
Next, we'll type, vagrant up,
and hit Enter.
This may take a few minutes as the VM instance
is pulled down and started.
At this point, we're going to type,
command, space, and in the spotlight search
we'll type virtualBox, and hit Enter.
As you can see, our Oracle7 instance is running.
What we'll do, is we'll click Show,
and these annoying messages, if you click,
Do not show this message again, and click Capture.
If you need to remove your mouse
from the VirtualBox instance hit the left command key
and that will free your mouse.
The login is, vagrant, and the password is, vagrant.
From here, we're going to validate
that we have a stabile internet connection,
and we're connected.
Sending a ping to 8.8.8 ensures
that we can communicate with the world.
By the way 8.8.8.8 is Google's main DNS address,
so it's a good test.
From here, hit your command key to re-free your mouse.
Click back on your VirtualBox Manager, go to Settings,
then Network, and we're going to change the network setting
to Bridged Adapter.
And the name of the adapter is Ethernet 1.
Click Advanced, Allow All, and then OK.
What the bridged adapter does
is make the IP address similar
to the IP address that's running on the local box.
We may need to restart the Oracle7 VirtualBox instance.
As we can see, it's resetting the adapter.
If we type, Ifcongfig,
the IP address is 10.35.3.112.
Let's validate this and see if it's
in the same range as our host machine.
Take your mouse off, switch to your terminal window,
and at this point you may see an error message on the box.
Just ignore the error message for now.
Type, ifconfig, hit Enter, we'll scroll up,
and we can validate that our IP address
of our local host is 10.35.3.15, we'll copy that.
Go back to our VirtualBox Linux instance, type, ping,
paste in 10.35.3.15
and hit Enter.
This validates that we can ping our local IP address
which is important in order
for the Payara instance to communicate.
Next, let's validate that we can SSH into this terminal.
Bring up our terminal window again.
We'll type, ssh
vagrant@10.35
.3.112, hit Enter.
Say Yes, it asks for the password, vagrant,
hit Enter.
We're now SSH'd into our local Linux instance.
At this point we have a few more things we have to do
to prepare the remote Payara Server.
First, we'll type,
sudo yum update.
Yum is a package manager similar to Brew.
For each confirmation, please click Y, and hit Enter.
With it completed, let's type, java -version, hit Enter.
This tells us that Java's not installed.
Remember, that our Payara instance can only use Java 1.8,
so we're going to type,
sudo yum install
java-1.8.0
- openjdk,
and hit Enter, say Yes.
Our final step is to also install the JDK develop.
We'll type, sudo yum install
java-1.8.0
- openjdk
- devel,
hit Enter, click Yes, and we're complete.
Now, if we type, java -version,
we see our Java version.
If we type, javac -version, we see our compiler.
Last few things we have to do to prepare our Linux instance
to work with Payara is to adjust the firewall.
Now, your Linux admin can help adjust the ports needed
by Payara, and I recommend them doing this.
For us, all we're going to be doing
is turn off the firewall,
which you don't want to do in production,
but if we don't configure the firewalls, or turn it off,
this will lead to more problems as we move foward.
The command to do this is,
sudo systemctl
stop firewalld,
hit Enter, sudo systemctl
disable firewalld, hit Enter.
Okay, we've done quite a bit to set up our Linux instance.
For the next part, which is configuring Payara,
but we have one more detail that we are going to need
and that is a Payara directory.
So we'll type, mkdir
payara5, hit Enter.